# Obstacle Avoidance Algorithm
Welcome to the Obstacle Avoidance Algorithm. 
It is about path planning for a mobile robot to reach its destination by avoiding obstacles resulting in a safe navigation as an optimal path. The robot has to determine its location corresponding to its obstacles at each step and find a suitable strategy to achieve its target. A plethora of algorithms have been developed in order to planify a collision-free path for mobile robot encumbered environment and these algoritms fall into two categories: Local path planning and Global path planning depending on the information availability of environment. 

In the global path planning, information about the environment is already known in advance using grid, cells, map etc. Whereas in the local path planning, it is unknown and the robot has to discover its environment by sensors and then plans the path. This kind of path planning approaches are seen as real time obstacle avoidance. There is a lot of usage of it in the real world. For example, for an autonomous ship in avoiding collision with obstacles and to take the best possible route economically. It is possible to detect the distance between the robot with the target and the obstacles with the help of sensor. However, the sensor discussion is not conidered in this project. One of the most popular local paths planning technique is the Potential Field method. It guarantees simple and effective motion planning for practical purpose. Unlike any other local path planning method, the Potential Field method is able to consider the problem of path planning and obstacle avoidance simultaneously. In this project, the modified potential field method is implemented because it solves the local minimum drawback of the classical potenital field method.

Theoretically, potential field has two components: the field of attractive potential created to attract the goal and the repulsive potential field created to repel obstacles. When the robot immersed in the potential field, the robot is navigated towards the target by attractive and repulsive forces. This combination of two forces is dedicated to control the motion of the robot in a safer path while avoiding obstacles.

